okay good morning everyone welcome back
hope you all enjoyed the eclipse
yesterday let's talk a little bit about
the final project so hopefully Yesterday
by 11:59 p.m. you all submitted your
idea for your final project and you
thought a little bit about how to break
this down into four baby steps that will
get you there uh a couple questions that
came up inevitably about this process
what happens if you change your mind or
you get two we into your final project
and you find out that what you pitched
wasn't reasonable you absolutely can
change your mind just let us know when
you submit a given weekly
report type into the bright space
submission here's what I had planned for
this week here's what I've changed to
for this week for this reason two or
three sentences should be sufficient you
are not being graded on your ability to
predict into the future about what Will
and won't work in pi bullet what you are
being assessed on is your ability to uh
map out uh a relatively ambitious
project and break it down into pieces
and your ability to keep us in the loop
about what's working what isn't and so
on make sense okay use common sense here
we should be fine any questions about
things so far yes um how do you make the
joints
like like St
but just like make it so that they don't
like deach from limbs like there's a
significant amount of more tension that
actually keeps the limbs together okay
that's a good question so we haven't
talked about that uh simulating a joint
well can be tricky so there if there's
significant torque acting at the Joint
it can pull the pieces apart my first
suggestion is there's probably something
else going on your simulation that's
creating undo torque better to to reduce
the torque in the system as a whole then
try and Fiddle with the joints there are
ways you can make the joints stronger
but usually it the joints will generally
work well as long as there isn't
significant torque what is it that
you're doing that's exerting so much
force on the
joints
um I have been making my robot jumps
like only by using revolutionary Force
okay so like when it's been like bending
down and bracing to jump it's like
bending its legs into like not into the
main body of the robot but bending it in
enough that like the front legs don't
like pull in fully with the back legs
separate from the body okay that sounds
like the kind of thing you want to come
see us in office hours about we can have
a look and try and diagnose things and
give you a a suggestion okay okay other
questions yes for the Milestones it's
only a text submission the Milestones
are a text submission if you want to
include a link that points us to a PDF
or your screenshots or videos as you've
been doing all along please do so so a
combination of text and pointers to
external resources is what we're looking
for sorry I should have made that clear
up front other
questions yes um also like what are the
other types of like that you can use in
the joints I saw that you have like
specifically that revolutionary as like
the type revolute joints meaning that
they revolve or it's it's angle there's
the other one which is a linear joint we
talked about this before so you can
create a piston in pi bullet where you
take two links and connect them together
with a linear joint and now forces
applied by that joint to the two links
that the joint connects will pull the
the links to towards one another or push
them apart that's a linear joint yeah so
remember uh when we're dealing with
physics engines and robots there's two
types of forces that we're talking about
there's rotational force force that's
trying to turn or twist something that's
called torque so a motorized revolute
joint the motor is applying torque it's
applying rotational Force to change the
relative angle between links if if you
use a piston or a linear joint that
motor the motor at a linear joint is
going to apply linear Force it's going
to change the relative positions of the
links rather than the angles between
them torque and linear
Force good and again uh it's not
immediately obvious how to implement
linear joints come and see me or the TA
and we can help you with that other
questions um you will notice on the on
the subreddit there's a pointer to tips
and tricks so there is a whole bunch of
these additional things uh that you can
add in you can change the masses of
objects you can uh include spheres
rather than rectangular solids there's a
bunch of stuff there if you haven't had
a look already you can browse through
there for
ideas okay uh I want to talk a little
bit about a andb testing this can be
particularly confusing especially if
your A and B variant of your algorithm
whatever you're proposing includes
different Fitness
functions let's look at an example let's
assume you've got the parallel hill
climber and because I don't want to
write out too much on the board let's
assume a population size of two so we've
got two parents and we'll just assume
whatever the fitness function is these
are the fitness values of the two
parents each parent produces a child the
child is better than or worse than the
parent we replace and so on and over
time we should see values doing
something like this right gradually
increasing o from generation to
generation and same thing for the second
parent okay I haven't said anything
about what the fitness value is but
let's assume that this is version a of
your code let's think about the Up Up
and Away project which is to get your
robot to jump maybe in Fitness variant a
here the fit uh sorry in variant a the
fitness function is the height of the
main body of the quadrad that's the
fitness function you're trying to use to
get your robot to jump and you get this
as some of you may have noticed
sometimes it works but sometimes
Evolution perversely instantiates
jumping in your robot in what
way standing on its tiptoes right so you
uh become disillusioned with the fitness
function that maximizes height of the
main body and you formulate a new
version of your code base variant B in
which everything is the same except you
change the fitness function to something
like maximizing the number of time steps
in which all four feet are off the
ground which means now your Fitness
function has become an integer value the
number of time steps for which
everything's off the ground so maybe
parent
one gets uh enjoys four time steps in
which the all four feet are off the
ground parent two three and you start to
get something that looks like
this which of these two algorithm
variants produce better jump
in we can't say because we have two
different definitions of jumping so AB
test is tricky if you're going to use a
different Fitness
function there are two options if you do
want to compare two different Fitness
functions you take something else that
isn't in A and B and use that as your
measurement for how well evolution is
evolving that behavior into your robot
it's a little tricky to see what that is
for jumping because we have two
definitions of jumping we have to come
up with something else like what for
example jumping seems like kind of a
simple intuitive thing you jump or you
don't but as we can start to see there's
different ways of actually measuring
jumping what makes for a good jump
Beyond just these two
things that's the maximum v z value is
this we're already selecting for this so
if we were to say we're going to look
across these two versions and see which
one produced better positive height of
the main body
which of these two variants do you think
is going to do a better job at
that than maximum height we're assuming
in this case we're not even measuring
the height of the main body just the
amount of time that all four feet are
off the
ground if we want to look see the height
of the main body it's going to be
algorithm AR variant a because that's
what evolution was selecting
for so we need to pick something
else are you asking what we should
change the fitness function to so that
it weighs both of them equally the way
we set up this experiment here is in
general we're in this experiment we're
interested in evolving jumping which
variant of our code A or B is going to
evolve better jumping for our
robot but we're in a tricky spot now
because we've already defined two
different ways of jumping and we're
asking which of these two algorithm
variants produces better jumping so it's
not fair to say well we'll use this
definition of jumping and ask which of
these two code bases produces that
version of jumping because this variant
will produce a better version of that
jumping than this so we kind of need
something like C something that is not
here and not here that most people would
agree is a good feature of jumping that
isn't obviously in either of these and
say that c is our version of jumping and
we want to see which of these two
produced a better version of that like
how far off the other feet how far off
the ground all four feet are right
that's a pretty good jump definition of
a high jump which is how far are your
feet off the ground the height of your
feet that would be an ideal C because
it's not immediately obvious that either
of these are selecting for that make
sense seems like kind of an odd way to
go about an experiment but for our
purposes that's what we're kind of
looking for yeah if your AB testing uh
does not have a difference in the
fitness function then you're okay so
let's imagine for example we're still
doing the Up Up and Away project but in
version a we're still selecting for the
height of the of the main body but in
algorithm variant a everything is
exactly the same except the body of the
robot in variant a we're going to uh
evolve for jumping in the quadraped and
in variant B we're going to evolve for
jumping in the hexapod in which case we
wouldn't have integers we'd be back to
floating Point
numbers
okay which is doing better at
jumping now it's a little more obvious
right so for those of you that are doing
AB testing in which the fitness function
is the same but you're changing
something else like the environment of
the robot or the body of the robot or
the cognitive architecture of the neural
controller of the robot or the mutation
rate or how mutation is done in the
evolutionary algorithm there's a whole
bunch of other things you could change
it's relatively easy to conduct an AB
test but if you're changing the fitness
function between A and B it's not as
obvious and if you get stuck come and
see the TA or myself and we can talk
about it make
sense okay all right question just one
small question sure project um is there
like a certain number of um children
during like each
like I was thinking about possibly like
increasing the amount of like
evolutionary variation I can get by
increasing the number of children that
each parent was like comparing itself to
to find like the strongest um
evolutionary Fitness of each of the
variations okay um and have you like
have
you applied much like like having like
multiple children for each parent and
like you found that there's like a
certain number of children that like
increases the fitness of the like robot
consistently that's a great question so
we've been talking about the parallel
hill climber which is a very simple
evolutionary algorithm you could for
example have each parent produce three
children or five children or 23 children
does that make a difference that would
be a great A and B test maybe you evolve
for jumping in the quadrip with the
standard parallel hill climber from
assignment nine and algorithm variant B
is you increase the number of children
that each parent produces and then you
try and answer the question you just
asked which is is there a certain number
of children more than one that over the
same amount of evolutionary time
produces greater Fitness that would be a
great final project good
okay okay all right back to uh our our
ongoing discussion about open problems
or challenges in the field of
evolutionary robotics we are going to
finish this discussion today with the
last open question in robotics which is
obviously if we want to make machines
that are useful and safe out here in the
real world with all of us we're going to
need to teach them how to be useful and
safe it's not very scalable to have one
person teaching or evolving behaviors
for a single robot then trying to cross
the Gap how do we construct a greater
algorithm that includes people and as
many people as
possible as you're going to see in the
Twitch Plays robotics project today we
have some evolving robots and very large
numbers of people that are directing
that evolutionary
process they are not writing down
mathematically Fitness functions they
are going to influence the evolutionary
progression of the robots using natural
language that's what we can assume most
people have in common and we are all of
us humans instinctual teachers whether
you know it or not it's in there
somewhere and the most intuitive and
most comfortable way for us to teach is
with natural
language but if we're dealing with
robots robots are embodied creatures and
they act they sense think and act so we
need to make a connection somehow
between language and action as we've
recently learned if you want to make
non-embodied machines like chat GPT it
seems like you can get away with just
teaching them with language since they
don't need to act but some of of us
would argue that there's something
missing there perhaps the way to go is
to connect language with action but
human language English Mandarin doesn't
matter it seems very far from the nuts
and bolts of physical embodied action in
the World poetry language mathematics
chess they are abstract non-touch things
that are very different from learning to
walk
right it feels that way to many of us
but thinking about thinking is
misleading so last time we finished off
exploring the
fact the fact that there seems to be or
we're learning about the fact that there
are many many connections between at
least with humans between language and
action uh if you watched the lecture
from last time you saw uh some of these
interesting brain Imaging studies that
have been done with the motor strips
this is the part of the brain that would
be underneath your headphone strap when
you talk to someone who's lying in a
brain scanner and you mention action
words those parts of the brain tend to
light up that was the pulva Muller uh
experiment from not that long ago so
this is kind of a recent finding there
is a connection between language as I'm
speaking if I use body related words
like talk lick grasp pick I am lighting
up parts of your motor strip right now
that correspond to grasp lick pick and
so on yes another interesting one is if
you like think a word in your head you
can usually like feel yourself saying
absolutely there are many con once you
start to think about it there are many
connections between language and action
which is good news for us roboticists if
we're going to start talking to robots
those robots are going to have to make a
connection between language and action
also but how how are they going to make
a connection between language and action
we're spending a few minutes now seeing
at least how these things are connected
in humans not necessarily how they
became
connected obviously our ancestors were
able to walk and walk and lick and grasp
and walk and kick long before language
existed action
was there long before so somehow
language must have got grafted on top of
language
yeah we ended last
time on a
cliffhanger with George Loff a very very
famous psychologist and linguist uh who
pointed out that there are many there's
much evidence in language about how and
this is a hypothesis still how possibly
language got started in humans or
primates because it was connected with
our
actions LOF is particularly famous for
uh formulating this idea of embodied
metaphors if you're a non-native English
speaker and you start to hear English
idioms like don't jump to conclusions or
Don't Look Back in Anger many non-native
English speakers can tell you exactly
what these idioms mean the first time
they hear them without having them
explain to them
why they're related to the physical
world not just the physical world our
relationship to it right Don't Look Back
in Anger our physiology our primary
sensory apparatus which is our eyes
point forward we were and arguably still
are apex predators for apex predators
it's very good to be focused on what's
ahead you don't necessarily need to look
around you because no one's trying to
sneak up on you you're an apex predator
right so our primary visual sense is
forward we tend to move in that
direction so if we're moving and we
literally look back what do we see we
see things that are in our recent past
same thing with looking forward to
future events I see something and it
becomes a part of of my future
experience there are hundreds if not
thousands of embodied metaphors in every
language group we're all English
speakers in this room so we're going to
play the embodied metaphor game in
English what are some other embodied
metaphors don't hold
back try and lean into
this it's not that hard you don't need
to tie yourself in
knots are you going to make me pull this
out of you let your imagination run away
don't let your run your imagination run
away or run
wild cat got your tongue falling behind
sorry falling behind falling behind I
bet you most of you are thinking about
that right you're probably falling
behind behind on all your projects and
tests this month
others
staying grounded staying grounded
great a bit of a reach well done pulling
at straws pulling at straws this one is
a is a combination of physiological and
cultural right drawing the Short Straw
that's a cultural artifact many embodied
metaphors are a mix some of them are
purely
physiological you should get in touch
sometime should get in touch sometime
great let's pick up the page
it gets easier the more you do
it thinking about thinking is misleading
language does not necessarily feel like
an embodied thing feels like a difficult
thing to
do something's burdening you something's
burning you yeah burdening burdening you
yes yes burdening something yes
absolutely I have a burning need to hear
more embodied
metaphors I'm tripped up I'm exactly I'm
Tri
up I want more I'm not going to take
this line
down did you have one ah
okay you probably had one it was
probably on the tip of your
tongue trying to think of something
that's like you staying in place okay
you're stuck at the moment right you're
stuck okay being rooted to the ground
being rooted to the ground
absolutely the flow go with the flow
sing upam swimming Upstream
excellent some of you may be feeling
very behind with all your coursework at
the moment is that making you depressed
are you feeling
down sure get ahead sorry I'm sure I'll
get ahead I'm sure you'll get ahead of
it absolutely stay ahead of
it why is depression associated with a
direction why is an emotion associated
with direction looking forward to and
looking back that makes sense it makes
sense why for future time for most
cultures it's ahead and for most
cultures the past is behind not every
culture actually there are some
exceptions to this why emotions why is
depression a downward thing not an
upward thing this might
be okay ah falling into a trap well
done depressed there I feel weigh down
you feel weighed down okay when I am not
depressed I feel lighter so
there's there's some sort of emotional
gravitational
force
it could be why is why is in many
cultures and again not every culture the
good place up and the bad place
down when you feel depressed you feel
low when you don't you feel lifted up
which came first heaven or the feeling
of a direction associated with emotion
this is not a religious studies class so
we will not answer that here today our
our Point here today the point I'm
trying to make or impress upon you is
there seems to be a very deep connection
between action and our ability to
understand language we seem to have a
common reference frame for grounding
language in our
physiology actually how our bodies are
made how we move and how our
relationship with the world changes as
we
move absolutely is
that
robot how you go about trying to do that
yeah okay how so perfect how would we do
this there seems to be all this evidence
of connections between abstract Concepts
from language like Prospect prospection
imagine mentally imagining what's about
to happen in the future that feels like
a very abstract thing and yet this
abstract building block of intelligence
the ability to think ahead seems to be
connected with our very physiology the
direction in which our eyes point and
the way we feel most comfortable moving
about in the world all the way into
things like internal actions right
internal organs right we were just
playing the embodied metaphor game I
wanted you to really put your heart into
it right how's that going to work for a
robot that doesn't actually have a heart
seems tricky if you have like different
input neurons that might be like
associated with possibly like different
actions H now we're getting somewhere
actions are possible we share that in
common with machines we can instrument
machines with sensory systems so maybe
we can train or evolve machines to
connect sensation at least in terms of
sensor values with
language that's exactly where the Twitch
Plays robotics project is going to start
I want you to imagine a quadrupedal
robot shouldn't be too difficult for you
to imagine shouldn't be too much of a
stretch for
you assume this quadrupedal robot has
four binary touch sensors in the four
feet and this robot is running about
it's in in its environment and my little
cartoon figure down here is meant to
represent how the robot's sensation is
changing over time no evolutionary
robotics at the moment just a robot
that's acting in the world and as it's
moving about it feels pressure on its
feet or it's it's getting plus ones from
the touch sensors in its feet and by
chance at some point just by chance
maybe it's equipped with a random neural
controller all four feet come off the
ground and the robot senses all four
touch sensors go to minus one at that
point in time and at that point in time
from somewhere the robot he's
JP the robot doesn't know what this is
it's just a random collection of symbols
recall the Chinese room no understanding
yet just four strange symbols happen to
come into the robot's neural
controller at the time at which all four
feet left the
ground the robot goes back to running
around it doesn't hear this and then
again by chance all four feet come off
the ground four minus ones and suddenly
the robot quote unquote hears
J again what can the robots start to
conclude from this experience as it's
repeated over and over and over
again just an association Syle a simple
Association from the robot's point of
view this symbol this symbol this symbol
and this symbol tend to be associated in
time with min-1 -1 -1 minus one a simple
Association nothing fancy at this at
this
moment this is known as the symbol
grounding problem problem meaning if you
have a whole bunch of symbols as we saw
before from a ma from a machine like the
Chinese room that has no ability to act
or do anything in the world the best
thing that this non-embodied machine can
do is still learn associations but it
can learn assoc iations between the
symbols of language and the other
symbols of language which is exactly
what chat GPT has learned to do and it
does it very very very well we now have
an example of something that doesn't
solve the symbol grounding problem these
symbols are not grounded in action in
any obvious way for chat PT symbols are
just associated in the sense of chat p
knows when these symbols of language
appear to humans humans tend to continue
on with this set of symbols chat PT can
predict the next token in a string of
letters or words or
sentences us we and possibly machines
have another way to ground symbols or
deal with symbols which is to ground
them in the so soil of sensor motor
experience for our cartoon robot here
it's learned an association between a
very small piece of language and its own
felt
experience so far so good okay if a
robot can do that imagine this quadruped
keeps keeps moving around and from time
to time uh as long as it's moving or
jumping or these values are changing it
hears the symbols m o v e m n t it tends
to hear these eight symbols much more
often than it hears these four symbols
as long as the robot is moving people
are saying that's movement that's
movement that's movement that's movement
the robot might start to learn an
association between JP and its touch
sensor values it might also start to
learn an association between these eight
symbols and its sensor
values and it might start to now learn
an association between these eight
sensor Val these eight symbols and these
four symbols that these four symbols
always occur whenever these eight
symbols
occur but these eight symbols sometimes
occur when these four symbols do not
occur there's an asymmetry here from the
robot's perspective people see that
there's types of movement that isn't a
jump but jump is is always a type of
movement so the robot is now not
grounding this set of symbols directly
in its own felt experience it's
grounding these symbols in these
slightly more embodied symbols so like
we just saw in the case of embodied
metaphors you can take any given word
from any language and you can start to
think about how embodied it is how how
directly could machine or an organism
discover an association between those
symbols and something that it does or
some invariance or some relationship
between itself and the
environment everybody see that if that's
possible it's possible that you could
make this recursive a slightly more
abstract term or like political movement
is now
metaphorically implying action but not
directly implying action there are
certain movements that might actually be
part of a political movement and then
socialism is a particular type of
political movement we're getting up here
into very very abstract terms that seem
quite a long
way from a direct felt experience so
this is still all a theory kind of makes
sense you can imagine a machine that
starts to learn language like jump and
movement Maybe harder to learn these
ones up here because obviously these
words are very far from direct felt
experience
right that's your cue thinking about
thinking is
misleading in this country for better
for worse there are two main political
parties it's a democracy of sorts when
you think about these two parties and
elections aside from Stress and Anxiety
what do you
feel going to leave political opinions
out for the moment when I say feel I
mean literally feel what does democracy
in a country in which there are multiple
political parties that are vying for
power what does it feel like how close
to actual physical experience can we
get like your body sort of feels like
tense tense why because because like
the there's a lot like sort of going
on beh a lot more behind the scenes that
you need to focus on rather than just
like a lot of like intuitive like
actions that we're like looking at like
every day okay maybe things behind the
scenes that's another embodied metaphor
other ideas there like a push and pull a
push and a pull you ever play play
tug-of War most people if you put them
in the brain scanner and you talk about
the two-party system in this country the
anxiety parts of the brain absolutely
light up but the parts of the motor
strip that are involved when people are
playing tug-of warar light up you
mentioned tensing up if you play tug-of
warar and your muscles are relaxed
you're going to lose right there is
something that involves or engages most
muscle groups when you're playing a push
and pull type game so push and pull
metaphors as you can imagine are
ubiquitous they're everywhere in
political
discourse things like politics seem like
an abstract thing far from the physical
body they are not or at least you can
make a case that they are not so it
seems like there is a lot of evidence or
possibility for grounding uh language
including socalled non-embodied language
in the felt experience of humans I don't
know about machines
we're going to focus what you're going
to see in the Twitch Plays robotics
project in a moment is machines that are
going to start down here whether we can
get machines to form associations
between embodied words and felt
experience and whether they can then
exploit that to understand things like
the push and pool of multi-party
politics we'll see questions so far so
good okay all right so uh this is a
project that came out of my lab it's
still running uh if you Google Twitch
Plays robotics you should be able to
find it and actually play Twitch Plays
uh robotics Twitch Plays robotics is
designed to enable robots to ground
symbols in their own felt experiences
it's a pretty complicated experiment so
we're going to break the description of
this experiment down into four stages
the robot's going to act the robot's
going to
observe how the crowd reacts with
language to what it did so robot is
going to have felt experience and it's
going to have symbols from the crowd and
it's going to try and learn associations
between between its actions and language
from the crowd and we're going to then
measure whether the robot successfully
learned to ground uh symbols in action
by asking the robot to
predict we're going to give it new words
and new actions and see if it can
correctly predict the other one this is
a common way to test whether machines
have learned something expose them to
General versions of what we think
they've learned and if they can
successfully deal with those unseen
situations they've learned okay here we
go all right let's start with uh act um
we have a twitch Channel called Twitch
Plays robotics everybody know what
twitch is do I need to explain what
twitch is one of the most popular
websites on the planet people typically
go there to watch people play video
games and sometimes type into chat to
other members of the chat or whoever is
playing uh the video game so we on our
Channel we have a video game which is a
physics engine that is evolving robots
people can type into chat and we are
going to capture that chat and store it
in a database so we've got an evolu
robotics experiment running we're
streaming it live to Twitch and we're
scraping whatever people say back to the
robots
Okay uh okay I'm gonna just zoom in here
we're gonna talk there's been many
versions of Twitch Plays robotics uh
over the years this was the original one
just to give you a sense of what this
looked like again I'm sure most of you
have seen or used twitch we have a live
video stream over over here a relatively
simple robot we gave the crowd the
following instructions if you want to
command the next robots just tell them
what you want to do in chat this is
where things are starting so from the
the average twitch users perspective
they're seeing this crazy simulation
over here and we're trying to suggest to
the crowd that they can come up with
things they might try and teach the
robotss at this point in time 10 uh
twitch users have voted to try and teach
the robot to crawl forward seven members
of the twitch Community uh have gotten
very tired of this robot so
they're threatening to Riot unless we
show them a different robot this is
twitch a bit of a chaotic place that's
okay uh what even is going on here so
close I don't even know what that means
okay at the moment luckily the majority
is voting for something they want to try
and teach the robots next crawl
forward from our perspective as the
investigators in this experiment that
made us optimistic that this might work
why useful instruction it's a useful
instruction this seems crawl forward see
seems like something that this simple
three-link two-joint worm might actually
be able to ground in its felt
experience so far so good okay all
right
okay at the moment at this point in time
in the experiment the crowd had voted on
so close as the thing to teach the
robots next this was some offhand
comment that some twitch person
mentioned I doubt this is some is a set
of symbols that this robot can probably
ground in its felt
experience we'll see okay all right I'm
going to show you a video now of this in
action this is the current version of
Twitch Plays robotics that's running uh
at the
moment
I'll direct your attention to the white
text at the top of the simulation here
people are now have voted to teach the
robot to be
big now they're asking the robot to
learn how to
move you'll notice that each robot has a
little symbol attached to
it this is the white cyan robot over
here this is the blue silver robot over
here here's the white white robot down
here the cyan yellow robot over here
these are the names of the
robots and you'll notice that someone
just voted for GB
GP to be better at whatever it was the
command that they got so let's follow
along what this user is saying
I'm going to back up for a moment in a
moment they're going to type in RR let
me back up
again they're going to type in RR in a
moment here's RR down here the command
is being big they're saying that RR is
bigger than
Jr back here so each of these robots is
collecting symbols the robots are do not
know what m o i
means but they're learning an
association which is whatever they are
whatever they're feeling they are more
of that thing than the other robot
is so far so
good
question it's a good point so in this
current version of the experiment they
do we're going to talk I just wanted to
give you a sense for what this what the
interface kind of looks like we're going
to spend our time talking about results
from this experiment where the only
thing the robots know is how well
they're doing at grounding s space c e
they're probably not going to be able to
learn any relationship between their
sensor values and that command that set
of symbols but they may be able to if
the symbols are c r a w space and so on
so far so good
okay okay so again I'll just show you
what people are typing in at this point
you can see a lot of people typing in
crawl forward craw crawl forward so at
this particular snapshot in the
experiment it seems we were lucky most
of the people on the stream at this time
seem to be getting the idea about what
we wanted them to do and they were
implicitly reaching consensus on things
that they might be able to teach the
robot they don't know how the robots are
being taught this they don't know
anything about neural controllers
presumably just that this is probably
more teachable than new robot or uh Riot
question show us two different
experiment yes
one one
is tress yes the relationship between
yeah so in this experiment which we're
going to talk about now they're voting
for what to teach the robot next and
they're voting I just haven't talked
about the voting mechanism yet you'll
notice that at this moment in time there
is the Violet robot on the screen we're
telling them that if they want to teach
this Violet robot right
now they should type in Violet robot yes
VY the robot is obeying the command so
close so close is the current set of
symbols that the robot
hears they should type in VN meaning no
The Violet robot is not obeying the
command so close that's the voting
mechanism so the robot is getting uh is
getting these symbols and it's also
hearing about whether or not the crowd
thinks it's doing the right thing for
those of you that are familiar with
reinforcement
learning the one of the most popular
topics in reinforcement learning at the
moment is reinforcement learning with
human feedback this is a version of
rlf robot the robots at this point have
absolutely no idea what crawl means or
so close means or jump means but they
might be able to start to form an
association between symbols and what
they feel if they hear something and
they generate a particular type of
sensation like they actually crawl
forward and they get onethird piece
which is
yes the robot hears jump and the robot
doesn't jump they they hear n the robot
hears jump and jumps the robot hears
yes the voting is the robot's ability to
complete this Association task it needs
to know if the sensations it's currently
generating by acting it's an embodied
agent it moves and generates sensory
information is the sensory information
that it's
generating what people would consider an
instantiation of those symbols an
instantiation of crawl
forward everybody see that so in the
Twitch Plays robotics project we're
going to look at these three different
types of data the sensation generated by
the robot the symbols that make up the
human generated
commands and reinforcement yes or no
does that sensation align with that
action okay so a little bit more about
this uh user interface uh you'll notice
at this moment in time we've got the
violent the Violet robot down here you
can see someone's typed in BN so there
was a blue robot just before this Violet
robot and this particular user is saying
BN did not obey the current command that
person repeats it again here so people
are voting yes or no whether the robot's
actions or Sensations are matching the
symbol okay that's quite a bit of detail
about about experimental design I'll
just pause for a moment any questions
about
that so far so good
okay
okay okay so let's look at uh oh
actually let me uh yeah let's let's talk
about the data set itself so we've got
this thing running and we're generating
thousands and over a few years we
generated millions of robots and neural
controllers through t
but we used just two robot body plans
two different robots the simple
three-link worm that you just saw and
I'm going to just jump ahead a little
bit this quadruped so we looked at two
different bodies this was actually one
big AB test and in the Twitch Plays
robotics project the question we were
asking is not just can robots ground
action in language
but do some bodies make it easier for
the robot to ground language in action
so robot a the simple worm robot B the
quadraped so far so
good okay let's go back to the data set
here okay so R Subzero r0 is the worm R
sub one is the
quadraped for each robot that robot was
shown to the crowd over and over and
over and over again and that tended to
elicit from the crowd a whole bunch of
seas these are the commands that the
crowd F the robot might be able they
might be able to teach the robot to obey
that command so some commands were jump
some commands were crawl forward some
commands were new robot or RI Riot what
other commands do you think the typical
twitch user generated for a
robot I'll give you a hint this was at
the beginning when twitch was just
getting going and there were no verbal
filters on Twitch at this
time I thought I knew every bad word in
the English language I was sorely
mistaken you'd be
amazed when you have a friend who comes
to visit whose uh native tongue is not
English what are the first six or eight
words you teach them you can probably
guess same thing here these robots know
way more about swear words than you or I
ever
will hard to ground that is it is it
hard to ground bad words we are not
going to enter into that discussion here
that's a black hole we'll never escape
from more embodied metaphors for you
okay other than those swear words what
else do you think they tried to teach
the robots
those were the most popular as you can
probably
imagine craw forward crawl forward so
among all the landmines of natural
language there were a lot of terms that
again gave us confidence that maybe this
experiment could actually work generally
speaking the crowd tended to converge on
embodied words things that these robots
from our perspective as investigators we
thought yeah there's maybe a chance some
other fun ones were um uh proved for
Matt's Last Theorem our robots have not
yet figured that one out one of my other
favorites was be
yourself is this let's assume this robot
is hearing be space blah blah right now
would you vote Yes or no right hand if
you think this robot is being itself
left hand if you think this robot is not
let's see if we have consensus okay most
people feel this robot is being itself
so actually maybe that is a groundable
word you know it's not up to us it's up
to the consensus of the crowd okay okay
so again just we're going to start to
use this notation a bit as we go forward
whenever you see r with a single
subscript that references the worm or
the quadrip whenever you see a c with
two subscripts i j whenever you see a
subscript C IJ the first subscript
denotes that command was sent to that
robot so command uh this command CI J
was issued to robot I so I can be either
zero or one maybe when people saw the
worm they tended to issue commands like
crawl and when they saw the quadraped r
sub one they issued commands like jump
or maybe not right the second subscript
is going to index different commands
swear word one swear word two swear word
three jump stay be yourself prove forat
Last Theorem however many commands we
got they got their own ID number and we
had those unique commands so far so
good question are these like reward
values at different times stuff uh good
question are these reward values no
reward yet we're just talking about the
robots morphology and the string of
symbols that they heard that's it we
haven't got to reward yet we'll get to
reward in a moment did you do any
filtering on the
command no filtering literally
everything was allowed for better for
worse this was a very interesting
experiment in many
ways as human investigators we wanted to
to try and introduce as little bias as
we could about whether or not these
robots could ground crowd generated
language
okay okay uh the the next piece of
nomenclature here is n with three
subscripts in the original Twitch Plays
robotics which we're talking about today
there was no Evolution during the stream
all we did was send one random neural
controller n for neural
controller to the robot one after the
other so Random sets of synaptic weights
that's all the robot was doing one
random neural controller after after
another we've got three subscripts here
the first one is I so this random
controller was sent to either the worm
or the
quadrip the second subscript J says this
controller was sent to robot I when it
was hearing the JF command so if let's
say I equals Zer that means this random
neural controller is running on the
worm perhaps this random neural
controller is running on the worm while
the worm hears
JP that particular
command and the kth subscript is just
that neural controller we might have uh
over the span of this experiment and we
probably did send more than one random
neural controller to the worm while the
crowd was trying to teach it to jump so
there might have been multiple neural
controllers generating sensor data while
the worm was being taught to jump so far
so good so we've got two word we've got
two robots hundreds of commands that the
crowd issued to the robot and thousands
and thousands and thousands of random
neural controllers that were run on the
robots so far so
good okay you asked about uh
reinforcement or reward last piece of
nomenclature here deep breath we got
four subscripts here s for reinforcement
signals we already used the r up here so
what does a reinforcement signal
mean if I showed you the worm and the
worm happened to be doing
this and the crowd had issued the
command
jump what would you type in y or
n robots doing this we should jump right
hand for yes left hand for no is the
robot obeying the command jump I see
unanimous hands going up I see nine
right hands going up so s i j K1 would
be set equal to nine nine members of the
crowd at that moment said yes the robot
is obeying the command jump I did not
see a single left hand nobody said no
the robot is not obeying the did you
have your left hand up oh no okay so s
Subzero here is set to
one for the kth controller that was
running on the worm that caused the worm
to do this while J is set to jump
on the worm robot so the K controller
extracted from the crowd nine a value of
nine for the re positive reinforcement
signal and a value of one for the
negative reinforcement
signal the two s's are integers number
of yes votes number of no votes so far
so good question so you say
nope the simulation never ends it's
actually been running more or less
continuously for nine years now we're
just running neural controllers one
after the other on these robots and as
we do we're Computing these values we're
we're pulling off a data set as we go so
this is this is quite different from
what we've seen in this course so far
we've got that's why this is drawn as a
continuous loop it just keeps going and
the database just keeps filling up with
this data RS and C's and n's and
s's we haven't done anything with this
data yet this is just the observe part
the robot is observing or we are
observing what we're getting back from
the
crowd so far so good okay all right so
now that we're armed with this data
set uh or let's actually let's actually
end by looking at what we actually got
so we've written a number of papers
based on this continuously running
experiment this is the the first bunch
of data that we scraped off this
experiment that we're talking about
today um it took place over a few weeks
and we had 424 different humans there
weren't many bots on Twitch at this
point there were a few so somewhere in
here there's probably some Bots but
mostly
humans robot evaluations so we did uh we
did 57,000 evaluations in about two
weeks where an evaluation is running one
simulation with one random neural
controller so we executed
57,000 random controllers on the worm
and the the quadraped over these two
weeks uh we noticed that uh for o for
6,388 there was at least one Observer on
the stream at that time again it's hard
to say whether it was a bot or a human
being at this time they were mostly
humans so about a little over 6,000 of
the controllers were actually seen by
humans we got
16,000 pieces of chat back from the
crowd during this two week period
okay among this uh among the 16,000 uh
8900 of those pieces of chat were
commands these were things that were not
by
BN uh VY VN we had a very specific way
to tell whether a piece of chat was a
positive or negative reinforcement s0 or
S1 everything else was considered a
candidate command even if it was a swear
word even if it was someone on chat on
chat saying what the heck is this thing
we saw a lot of people talking to one
another do you know what we're supposed
to be doing H okay thanks for explaining
I get it off we go we just threw it all
in a bin and we assumed this was valid
commands we didn't want to go in and try
and pick out what we thought were actual
commands of the 4 24 subjects that
actually typed something into chat uh
each person typed in on average 21
pieces of
chat um if you've ever watched a twitch
stream you'll know that there were a few
subjects in here who did all the talking
and the vast majority of these
424 people said one thing and then left
again that's
fine uh we we saw that among all the
8900 pieces of chat there were
266 unique
strings so most of this was repetitions
people typing in the same
thing uh this I've filtered out all the
swear words here for you the next most
popular thing was
JP which was typed in
385 Times by different members of this
Cod cour so this jump that I chose to
illustrate the concept of symbol
grounding was not arbitrary this was the
number one thing that folks thought they
could get the Lang the robot to ground
in action other than swear words second
most popular thing was walk forward
third most popular thing was move
forward fourth was run fifth most
popular thing typed in by chat was crawl
forward uh there are many anecdotes from
the tpr EXP experiment I'll share just
one more with you when this started
going we w we were obviously watching
the chat we saw a lot of chatter among
uh the people chatting on the stream at
one point somebody said oh there's a
bunch of scientists trying to teach this
robot trying to teach this robot
language let's teach it swear words but
I have a plan for how to get this robot
to actually learn swear words so we're
going to assume that these these
investigators aren't here at night so
come back to the stream at 3:00 a.m.
eastern time and let's make a plan for
how to teach these robots how to how to
understand bad words what do you think
the grad student and I did after seeing
that piece of
chat you can imagine we were there at
3:00
a.m. a bunch of people did show up on
the stream at 3:00 a.m. and they decided
on the uh on the four swear words that
they wanted to teach the robot and they
said whenever the robot robot moves
forward and this is the squar word type
y if the robot moves forward and it's
any of the other three swear words Type
n
brilliant if the robot moves backwards
and it's the second swear word that's C
the robot currently hears give it a y if
the robot moves backwards and it's any
of the other three swear words give it a
no I don't know who this person was but
they clearly had figured out what we
were trying to do
I grilled all my grad students at least
it wasn't any of my grad students that I
could tell so they had a systematic way
to figure out how to teach this robot uh
bad
words so we didn't know whether to be
depressed or optimistic at this point
right bad news they're trying to teach
our robots SAR words but good word good
news in the sense that they understood
what we were trying to do and they
actually had a pretty good systematic
plan for how to get the robot to ground
those words in action Poss probably not
the words we wanted it to ground in
action but seemed like it was
possible we thought that was the end of
the story turns out that there were the
good folks who also came to the 3:00
a.m. meeting they sent out a message
later saying good guys they they use
some gendered language good guys come to
the stream at 11: p.m. and I've got a
plan for how to counteract the bad guys
what do you think the grad student and I
did we showed at up at 11: p.m. M the
good guys I'm going to use that inare
scare scare quotes decided came up with
the following plan actually what do you
think the plan
was by definition the good guys are
always trying to foil the bad guys the
bad guys are trying to ground swear
words
well
OPP y
absolutely that's it they created a
spreadsheet and they said here's the
user handles we saw for for everyone
that was at the 3:00 a.m. meeting let's
consider these guys the bad guys
whenever you see them on the stream
whenever they type in Y type in N
whenever they type in N type in Y at
this point I reached out to one of my
social psychology colleagues on campus
Because I was completely over my head
there were more interesting social
dynamics going on in this experiment
than I could understand from my
professional point of view okay an
interesting anecdote but irrelevant to
our discussion today we're going to
focus on just jump in a moment yes did
it work were they able to their uh I
don't know I don't think there was
actually enough reinforcement either way
it's a great question we ended up
getting more total reinforcement for
these things and actually maybe that
might have been because of the good guys
it's hard to say um I don't think we
ever went back and actually
systematically looked but my feeling was
the good guys poisoned the data set
enough that the robots probably wouldn't
have been able to ground those words but
we never actually tested that good
question okay back to
JP we took uh JP and we focused on this
one could the robots learn an
association between JMP and the very
large numbers of y's and n's we
collected from tpr during jump okay
couple other things to note uh we got a
large number of yeses and NOS we got a
total of
7500 y's and n's I don't know whether
that was I didn't know at the time
whether that was a big enough number we
wouldn't be talking about this
experiment if it wasn't it is a big
enough number for these robots to learn
an association between these words and
their actions which we're going to see
in a moment
uh let's see uh of the evaluations all
of these random controllers that people
saw a little more than one of them
received a yes or a no so what does that
mean that means most of the neural
controllers got zero yeses or NOS either
people didn't feel like chatting or they
couldn't decide if the worm is going
like this but staying in place is this
crawling I don't know maybe yes maybe no
maybe you hesitate from making a vote at
all it's exhibiting the crawling motion
but it's not actually crawling so maybe
yes maybe no some controllers got back
two y's and 0er NS or two n's and zero
y's or one y and one n some other
controllers that just happened to be run
on the robot when there were a lot of uh
people on the stream got 17 yeses and
three NOS or 27 Nos and three yeses or
problematically 15 yeses and 15
NOS that's what the data distribution
tended to look like the average human
subject typed in about 18 yeses or NOS
throughout this two we
period proportion of positive
reinforcement this o as you're going to
see in a moment is a number that r es
between minus1 and +
one for a single
controller a value uh of O equal + one
means unanimous
yeses that controller got three yeses
and Zer NOS or 33 yeses and zero NOS an
O of minus one means that controller got
1 n and zero yeses or 271 n's and zero
yeses a controller that got uh a
controller that got 17 yeses and 17 NOS
would have an O of zero so what is an an
average o of 0.28 tell you about the
crowd got more yeses than NOS kind of
interesting I don't know whether that's
a good thing for us or
not okay we've got two minutes left so
let's just start to talk about the learn
part jump was the most common command we
heard so what we did in this part of the
experiment is we took all of the ends
that were run on the
robot whenever the crowd issued jump so
we've got this very large data set that
I just walked you through we're taking a
subset from that data set we're pulling
out just the subset of controllers that
ran on the robot when the robot heard
jump and then we further filtered out
those controllers to controllers that
were running on the robot when the robot
heard jump and we got back at least one
reinforcement signal s Subzero here I'm
sorry about the font here s0 plus S Sub
one the absolutes added up to more than
one we got at least one yes or one no
for that controller running on the robot
when it heard
JP so we've got the actions of the robot
we've got the symbols that it
heard uh we've got action we've got
language and we've got s we've got the
reinforcement signals that we hope are
going to allow the robot to learn an
association between what it felt
literally what it felt and
JP we'll leave things there for today
you have a quiz due tonight you're
working on your second weekly report see
you all on
Thursday